Me: I stumbled upon this essay written by Edsger W. Dijkstra (EWD 447). The
following passage about the "Separation of Concerns" is very enlightening, and
I'd like to use it in my class on software development. Here's the original (…),
and here's my translation of it (…). Is this translation correct and well
readable?  Do you have any suggestions for improvements?

Delta: Here are two suggestions: Replace [this] with [that]. And maybe your
translation of [this] is a bit provocative.

Me @Delta: Thanks for the first suggestion, this makes totally sense! But for
your second point: It is provocative, but that might also catch the student's
interests.

Delta: It's well possible that Dijkstra wanted to use a somewhat provocative
term to shed a different light on it. You could start a discussion in class
based on this translation problem!

Me @Delta: That's a great idea! I'll tell the students that I wasn't sure how
to translate it, and ask them what they think!

Delta: Exactly, pick what makes the most of it pedagogically!

Me @Delta: Many thanks, that's exactly the kind of feedback I opened the thread
for!

Gamma: Sounds like translated by AI. Let the students work on the original text
and give them some tools for it, e.g. iPads. Everything is going towards AI. You
could teach them about chances and risks of AI.

Me @Gamma: What do you mean by "everything"? The subject [software testing]?
Teaching? The goal of the lesson is about testability of programs. And
"Separations of Concerns" is an important aspect to this.

Gamma: You should connect software development with AI. Everybody is talking
about AI, so students will be highly motivated! I doubt that your students are
motivated enough to work on your text. I'd be happy to be wrong. But I have my
experience in this field…

Me @Gamma: So just because everybody is babbling about AI, I should start doing
so, too? I'd like to give students the chance to hear about such concepts [SoC].
Certainly not everybody will be highly motivated, but some might profit
tremendously from it. For the rest, it's just an intro to the following
programming exercises; won't hurt. (Certainly better than some PowerPoint bullet
points.) PS: Are you trying to troll me on a meta level? Separation of Concerns
would be to not make everything about AI.

Gamma: Very interesting. I thought pedagogues were supposed to motivate as many
students as possible, and not just a tiny minority. Taking criticism isn't your
strength, obviously.

Delta @Gamma: In a basic first aid class you don't teach the latest innovations
in ventilator engineering…

Gamma @Delta: Why not, if it helps? Your example is out of context.

Delta @Gamma: Yours, too: Separation of Concerns has little to do with AI.

Gamma: Software Development is about Algorithms. AI is based on Algorithms, too!
So certainly you could make the connection! Admittedly, I have no clue about the
subject matter. But it's all about motivating the students for a subject! For
that purpose, connect it to AI. Maybe I'm wrong, so what? I just wanted to help…

Me @Gamma: If it were just about motivating people, we could just play video
games. They'd be highly motivated! Motivation needs to happen inside the context
of the course's subject matter. About taking criticism: I opened the thread in
order to be criticized, and Delta did a great job criticizing my translation.
You just suggested to throw everything out and to replace it with a discussion
on AI. Maybe AI would even be useful in this context for the domain of a
programming exercise. But I cannot come up with such an example at the moment…

Gamma @Me: Do your course preparation on your own! Goodbye!

Me @Gamma: I didn't ask you to prepare course work for me, I just wanted to hint
at how a rather unrelated idea such as yours could be helpful if introduced to
the context at hand instead of entirely replacing it from the get-go. But thanks
for making me further think about the concept of Separations of Concerns!
